High-performing infrastructure and performance
optimization is not to be confused with high-performance computing.
The term high-performance computing has come to generally mean aggregating
computing power in a way that delivers
much higher performance than one could get out of a typical computer or server,
in order to process data and perform complex calculations at high speeds.
High-performance computing is essentially the use of
supercomputers for complex computational problems.
The terms high-performance computing and supercomputing can be used interchangeably.
High-performance computing or HPC
is an aggregate of technologies such as computer architecture,
algorithms, electrical engineering, and
software under one paradigm to solve the world's biggest problems quickly.
An efficient HPC system requires a high bandwidth,
low latency network to connect multiple nodes and clusters.
One of the primary drivers for moving to the cloud,
especially in research, academia,
and finance is high-performance computing.
Running high-performance computing workloads in the cloud allows for
rapid innovation and also the on-demand and
unconstrained scaling that cannot be achieved with mixed server clusters.
The advent of supercomputing is responsible for recent advances in medicine,
finance, conservation, virtual worlds,
and machine learning, taking workload processing from days and
weeks to hours and minutes and bringing what once seemed impossible to reality.
Amazon offers optimized instances for supercomputer clusters capable of
the computational and graphics processing required for high-performance computing.
Running high-performance workloads on AWS provides
the flexibility of a single console for global access to high-performance clusters.
You as the customer,
can take advantage of all the hallmarks of AWS infrastructure and technology;
pay for what you use, elastic infrastructure,
flexible configurations, and optimized network operations.
While this class is not going to teach you about supercomputers,
it's important to understand the difference between high-performance and
high-performance computing and how AWS offers end-to-end support for both.